I want to talk quickly about a file parts because for some people this might be a new concept.
Up until now I wrote let's say something like sad dot Pi or sad dot text and I was able to run this
code because when I ran it in my terminal or command prompt they were all in the same folder on my desktop.
If I do present working directory on a Mac it shows me where I'm currently at.
Which is the desktop.
So I was able to run it like this because my script file was in the same folder as my sad and test text
but what happens if this wasn't the case we can actually jump back a directory by saying C D.
Dot dot.
So if we go back my present working directory is now user and I go.
So I'm not on the desktop anymore so that if I try and run Python 3 and then say a script dot pi well
can't find the file.
Right.
So let's go back to desktop and try to figure out this problem.
I'm going to for now make a directory and call it let's say all a very generic folder or let's just
call it app.
So now I have an app folder I can move this sad text into the app folder now.
So if I grab the sad text and move it to the app folder if I go back now and try to access sad that
text so let's say Python 3 script up by well if I go back I've appended C++ tax so it's actually creating
it for me.
So instead let's actually remove sad dot text because we actually have one already in here in the app
instead of appending it let's just do a read.
If I try to read now I get a file not found error sad dot text doesn't exist because it checks the desktop
and on the desktop we have nothing we don't have sad dot text.
So how can we get around this.
Well I simply say that I want to go into the directory app slash sad dot text so that if I run this
now it's it it's reading it but it's an unsupported operation.
So let's just turn this into a read
and we don't need any of this so let's just
read here.
If I run this all right.
It's working now.
I'm able to change the fact that now if you're on a non Unix based system that is if you're not only
mac or linux and you're on Windows.
Most of the time instead of this Slash It's a back slash like this.
So windows and Unix systems have different file parts and file system in place.
So this is something that you can read up on depending on your file path and why your present working
directory is you'll have a better idea of how it should look on Windows it's usually something like
C and then backslash and then you'll have different file path.
Now this is called a relative path.
So relative to where I am where I'm running the script from I am going to go from here into the app
into said Dot text.
I could have also copied this entire file path like this and this is called an absolute path.
So if I run this this still works because I'm giving an absolute path it's saying hey on this computer
this exists from the root user all the way into here.
So this is another way of doing it.
Most of the time you'll see relative because it's a lot simpler finally.
You might sometimes see something like a dot slash dot slash simply means from the current folder.
So if I run this it's still going to work.
It's going to say hey from the current folder go to app folder then go to the text folder.
If I do dot dot slash like this if I run this I'll get an error.
Dot dot means back a folder.
So instead of our present working directory being desktop because we did dot dot will actually go into
my user account and it's going to try and find and I go a slash app slash sad dot text which is not
going to find anyway.
This is a bit of a tangent but I wanted to let you know that these file parts are important and it's
really dependent on a what operating system you're using like Mac or Windows and also where you're calling
the file from let's continue our discussion of files in the next video one quick note that I forgot
to mention there's a really useful built in module and python and you can see here it's new in version
three point four called Path lib.
It's an object oriented file system path.
Now the main thing is you can see how to use it through the documentation but the key thing is that
if you're building a program that lets say reads something from the file system like a file and this
program can be used both on Windows and Mac and Linux systems you want a way to make sure that it works
on both.
Right.
Because we saw how Mac and Windows have different file system with different slashes well path lib library
actually works with both.
You can see over here if you want to manipulate windows path on a Unix machine or vice versa this is
going to work for you and it's a good way for you to create software that is compatible with both systems
because path lib is going to take care of the file past for you based on what machine is running your
code.
Now this is something you can read on your own and experiment but I wanted to let you know that this
does exist and it is a useful library for you to have in the back of your pocket.
That's it for now.
I'll see in the next one by.